Segment_Everything_Finetune.md, before:

# Segment Everything Finetuning

This document outlines the added training mode for finetuning MobileSAM when the
target task is **segment everything**.  The approach mimics the behaviour of
`SamAutomaticMaskGenerator` by providing grid based prompts and supervising all
objects within an image simultaneously.

## Dataset
- Use the same folder structure as the original dataset:
  ```
  dataset/
    image/xxx.jpg
    mask/xxx/obj_0.png
    mask/xxx/obj_1.png
  ```
- For each image all object masks under `mask/<id>/` are loaded and stacked.
- A regular point grid is generated over the original image (default step
  size = 32 px).  Points are scaled to the network resolution (1024×1024).

## Training Changes
- New dataset class **`SegmentEverythingDataset`** provides the stacked ground
  truth masks and the grid prompts.
- When `dataset.mode` in the config is set to `"everything"` the training script
  switches to this dataset and calls a custom prediction routine that evaluates a
  batch of grid prompts for every image.
- Each grid point produces three candidate masks (`multimask_output=True`).  For
  every candidate the IoU with each ground truth mask is computed.  If the best
  IoU is larger than 0.8 the candidate is matched to that object, otherwise it is
  treated as background.
- Loss per candidate = **BCE + 0.5·Focal + Dice**.  The IoU prediction head is
  supervised with MSE against the measured IoU.
- For unmatched ground truth masks the candidate with highest IoU is also used
  for supervision.
- Distillation losses are disabled in this mode for simplicity, but the rest of
  the training pipeline (optimizer, scheduler, etc.) remains unchanged.

## Usage
In `configs/mobileSAM.json` set
```json
"dataset": {
  "mode": "everything",
  "grid_points": 32,
  "train_dataset": "./datasets/train",
  "val_dataset": "./datasets/val"
}
```
Running `python train.py --config configs/mobileSAM.json` will finetune MobileSAM
with segment-everything supervision.

Commit message:

Improve matching threshold and evaluation

Segment_Everything_Finetune.md, after:

# Segment Everything Finetuning

This document outlines the added training mode for finetuning MobileSAM when the
target task is **segment everything**.  The approach mimics the behaviour of
`SamAutomaticMaskGenerator` by providing grid based prompts and supervising all
objects within an image simultaneously.

## Dataset
- Use the same folder structure as the original dataset:
  ```
  dataset/
    image/xxx.jpg
    mask/xxx/obj_0.png
    mask/xxx/obj_1.png
  ```
- For each image all object masks under `mask/<id>/` are loaded and stacked.
- A regular point grid is generated over the original image (default step
  size = 32 px).  Points are scaled to the network resolution (1024×1024).

## Training Changes
- New dataset class **`SegmentEverythingDataset`** provides the stacked ground
  truth masks and the grid prompts.
- When `dataset.mode` in the config is set to `"everything"` the training script
  switches to this dataset and calls a custom prediction routine that evaluates a
  batch of grid prompts for every image.
 - Each grid point produces three candidate masks (`multimask_output=True`).  For
   every candidate the IoU with each ground truth mask is computed.  If the best
   IoU is larger than 0.5 the candidate is matched to that object, otherwise it is
   treated as background.
- Loss per candidate = **BCE + 0.5·Focal + Dice**.  The IoU prediction head is
  supervised with MSE against the measured IoU.
 - For unmatched ground truth masks the candidate with highest IoU is also used
   for supervision.  During evaluation a Hungarian assignment is performed on the
   IoU matrix to pair predictions and ground truths one-to-one.
- Distillation losses are disabled in this mode for simplicity, but the rest of
  the training pipeline (optimizer, scheduler, etc.) remains unchanged.

## Usage
In `configs/mobileSAM.json` set
```json
"dataset": {
  "mode": "everything",
  "grid_points": 32,
  "train_dataset": "./datasets/train",
  "val_dataset": "./datasets/val"
}
```
Running `python train.py --config configs/mobileSAM.json` will finetune MobileSAM
with segment-everything supervision.
